[AUDIO LOGO]
[MYSTERIOUS MUSIC]
>> Everything that we know
and have learned about mankind
and its place in the universe
suggests that we are a part
of the norm.
We are not the exception.
Within the last
month, a planet was
identified that has water,
a mere 110 light years away
from Earth.
We need to begin to
prepare to accept
and understand that we are
not alone in the universe,
have not been at all
throughout this time.
>> The same year that
life-giving water was
discovered on a distant planet,
the US Navy made a startling
announcement.
>>Look at that thing.
It's rotating.
>> Images, captured
by its pilots,
of objects exhibiting a vastly
superior technology were
authentic.
>> What the fuck is that thing?
>> Did you box a moving target?
>> We can start to
finally, at long last,
after all these decades, begin
to answer these questions about
the origin of these vehicles.
Where they're from?
How they're made?
How they function?
And why they're here?
>> People need to know there
is something else out there.
>> To fully understand, we must
examine a body of evidence long
suppressed, a parallel history
to the one we think we know,
stretching back
at least 70 years.
[PLANE WHIRRING]
On a clear, sunny day in
1955, William Coleman,
a decorated World War
II pilot, took off
from Miami on a routine flight
to deliver a B-25 bomber
to an air base in Mississippi.
>> My co-pilot said, look at
that bright spot up there.
I think it's just a reflection
of the sun that craze,
probably, in the windshield.
>> He and his passengers,
two aviation engineers,
realized it was a strange object
making a rapid descent right
across their flight path.
>> My god, look at that thing.
And I opened it up to
max continuous power.
Here we're clipping right along
at over 300 miles an hour,
right on the tree tops.
So I'm right on the
tail of this thing.
As we got closer, I said,
it doesn't have a tail.
It doesn't have any wings.
Look at the shadow
on the ground.
The shadow is perfectly round.
That's not an airplane.
And I said, I'm overtaking it.
So I said, hang on.
So I make a hard turn.
There it was, a disk
going across the field
with two big swirls.
What I didn't see
was any exhaust,
propulsion, no rivet
lines, a rounded edge
about that size
where it all came
together, a true flying saucer.
>> Then it seemed to vanish
until they spotted it thousands
of feet above them.
>> Bright, yellow,
sun-ish looking object.
It went like a bat out of hell.
>> After they landed, the
stunned witnesses were
separately debriefed
by Project Blue Book,
the Air Force investigation
of the UFO phenomenon.
Ironically, a little
over a decade later,
Colonel William T. Coleman
became public spokesman
for Project Blue Book.
>> Probably what we saw may
have been from somewhere else.
Look, the Air Force
is a very deadly
being when it comes to
intercepting an unknown.
If it proves hostile, we're
going to shoot it down.
Other than that, no problem.
>> In the late 1940s, America
seemed impregnable to military
threat.
It had just emerged
from World War II
masters of the air, the only
nuclear-armed superpower
in the world.
But in 1947, something appeared
in the sky and everything
changed.
>> Every newscaster and every
newspaper across the nation has
made headlines out of it.
And this afternoon,
we are honored indeed
to have here in our studio
this man, Kenneth Arnold, who
we believe may be able to
give us a firsthand account
and give you the same
on what happened.
>> I kept looking
for their tails.
They didn't have any tails.
I thought, well, maybe
something's wrong with my eyes.
They seem to flip and flash
in the sun just like a mirror.
I'd be glad to confirm it
with my hands on a Bible
because I did see it.
And whether it has anything
to do with our army,
or our intelligence,
or whether it
has to do with some foreign
country, I don't know.
>> Arnold had sent this sketch
to the Air Force following his
sighting.
He was later invited to
California's Hamilton Field
Army Air Base, where he
was handed what he was told
were authentic photos
of a similar craft.
>> At the request of Lieutenant
Colonel Donald Springer,
Commanding Officer of the
Fourth Air Force Intelligence,
and was given the above
prints as a courtesy
for the assistance he had
given military intelligence.
>> The photo was taken in
Arizona just two weeks after
his own encounter.
They said that my father
sighting of flying saucers
got more attention than
the ending of World War II.
He was besieged by
newspaper reporters
from all over the world.
>> Reporters interviewed United
Airlines pilot E.J. Smith,
who also flew the
northwest route.
He joked Arnold had likely been
fooled by a cockpit reflection,
until he too became a
witness a few weeks later.
He and his stunned
crew had watched
as nine disks maneuvered
in formation for a full 45
minutes.
>> And from there,
it just exploded.
The first few days
in July of 1947
had a very large level
of sighting activity.
>> These unknown objects
barnstormed across the country,
sometimes in fleet-like
formations that looked like
a deliberate show of force.
>> Hundreds of people told Air
Force investigators they'd seen
the saucers with their own
eyes, bright shiny things that
whisked through the air
at incredible speeds.
Even airline pilots who
seldom indulge in fantasy
reported sighting.
And Air Force fliers told of
chasing them or something all
over the sky.
The Air Force call them
unidentified flying objects,
but people went right
on calling them saucers.
It seemed there was
something in the air.
>> Well, the airport Air
Force has the best brains
in the country working on it.
General Nathan Twining, the
Air Force Chief of Staff,
said that if there are
forces from Mars, or Jupiter,
or some far-off planet.
And if there is a people and
a world that far ahead of us,
he doesn't believe we even
have to worry about it.
>> But a then secret memorandum
by the same general suggested
that the highest military
echelons thought there was
plenty to worry about.
The memo states,
quote, "The phenomenon
reported is something real and
not visionary or fictitious."
It described metallic
disks circular in shape
with domes on top, often
traveling in formations
of three to nine craft.
It also listed
aerodynamic capabilities
with disturbing implications
for national defense,
extreme rates of climb,
dazzling maneuverability,
and a superior capacity
for evasive action.
>> A lot of people expected that
the United States government
was about to confirm,
OK, they're ours.
This is an exciting new
technological advance
that we were testing.
And now it's time to
tell people about it.
>> Occasionally, eyewitness
testimony included compelling
photographic evidence.
Evelyn Trent was
feeding her rabbits
when she spotted a
metallic, disk-shaped object
floating over their farm.
She alerted her husband
Paul to grab his camera,
and he managed to get two shots.
They describe the
object slowly hovering
before it abruptly sped away.
"Life Magazine"
picked up the story,
and the McMinnville UFO
became a global sensation.
>> There was no chance
of this being weather.
There was no chance of this
being a star or an aircraft.
This is either some kind
of structured object
that we don't know what
it is or it's a hoax.
Paul Trent and his
wife, they were honest,
simple, hardworking
people who never
made a dime off the
photographs that they took.
They never tried to
make a dime off of it.
>> It just come up like that.
And then it tipped and
just [IMITATES WHOOSH],,
I mean, really went.
It went fast.
I've never seen anything
go so fast in my life
as that thing went.
Yeah.
>> In 1951, future
astronaut Gordon Cooper,
while training in Germany,
chased a large formation with
his squadron of fighter jets.
>> Unlike fighters,
they would stop,
almost stop in their forward
velocity and change 90 degrees,
sometimes in their flight path.
And within the next
two to three days,
we had practically
all the fighters
we could muster on the base up
climbing as high as they would
climb with guys with
binoculars with them,
still trying to spot these
strange devices flying
overhead.
And we never could get close
enough really to pin them down,
but they were round in shaped
and very metallic looking.
And they would come over
and do the same maneuvers
that we make, except there
was one of them to go zip.
And you just can't
do that in a fighter.
>> Like two saucers, one
inverted over the other.
They seem to be made of
some kind of polished metal.
When I first saw the objects,
they were almost overhead.
By the time I had the
camera ready to go,
they had moved to a
considerably greater distance.
>> But the unknowns showed no
signs of hostility and other
worldly power on its
own mysterious mission.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Commercial pilots William
Nash and William Fortenberry,
former Navy aviators
with thousands
of hours of flight
experience, saw
eight huge disks fly
in a stack formation
over Chesapeake Bay,
Virginia, just a stone's throw
from Washington DC.
>> When it came out over
the blackness of the bay,
they're distinct six red coins.
When they got closer, we
could see that you were--
it looked like you were looking
down into it, like a hot coal.
>> They reported the glowing
red objects that approached them
head on at a speed they
estimated at 6,000 to 12,000
miles per hour.
>> It came in like this
and went out like this.
There would be no way of making
complete reversal or a 90
degree turn at
12,000 miles an hour
or greater without making the
occupants juice on the wall.
That kind of really shook us up.
Looking at the
thing shook us up.
Nothing could have
gotten to that degree
of scientific progress without
some of the intermediate steps
having become public knowledge.
We just knew that they
were not from this planet.
>> The next weekend, the
unthinkable happened.
The nation's Capitol was
invaded from the skies.
Seven unknown blips
suddenly appeared on radar
at Washington National Airport.
Air traffic controllers at both
Andrews and Bolling Air Force
Bases confirmed the
objects as they danced
through restricted airspace.
>> Capitol Building, the White
House where the president
lived, these were some of
the most important places
in the country when it
comes to national defense.
And there were UFOs
violating this airspace.
And there was nothing that the
Air Force could do about it.
>> F-94 interceptors
were scrambled.
Pentagon Press Liaison Al
Chop was in the radar room
that night.
>> We could see the planes
coming in on this radar scope.
And the minute we saw the
beginning of these guys,
the UFOs disappeared.
They just left.
They obviously, whatever
these things were,
had intelligence enough
to get out of the area
when we had an
intercept going in.
>> But the next
weekend, it began again.
Pilot William Patterson
pushed his Starfire jet
to maximum speed
to try to intercept
one of the glowing objects.
>> Flew right into the middle
of three or four of them.
>> Al Chop recalls the
pilot's panicky air-to-ground
transmission as he streaked at
600 miles per hour into a group
of unknowns.
>> He actually said,
they're closing in on me.
What shall I do?
It was frightening.
>> The Air Force had just
issued orders to shoot down
the unknowns if, quote,
"they can't talk them down."
>> I'm not going to tell an Air
Force pilot to fire at the damn
thing or anything.
I didn't say anything.
Nobody said anything.
And then all of a sudden, things
began to move away from him,
and he said, they're gone.
I'm convinced they're
solid objects.
I'm convinced that they're
probably from another planet
or from outer space somewhere.
I've always felt that
way since that night.
>> The very next day, the
Air Force's top brass hastily
prepared the largest Pentagon
press conference since World
War II.
Seen here in a
last minute huddle,
General Roger Ramey,
Air Force Director
of Operations at the Pentagon,
Captain Edward Ruppelt
of Project Blue Book, the
Air Force's official UFO
investigations arm, and Director
of Air Force Intelligence,
General John Samford.
>> Since 1947, we have received
and analyzed between 1,000
and 2,000 reports that have
come to us from all kinds
of sources.
Of this great mass
of reports, we
have been able adequately to
explain the great bulk of them.
However, there have been
a certain percentage
of this volume of
reports that had
been made by credible
observers of relatively
incredible things.
We can say that the
recent sightings are
in no way connected with
any secret development
by any department of
the United States.
>> In the Q&A with reporters,
Samford suggested a 50/50
chance it could have been radar
waves bouncing off temperature
inversions.
>> The point that Samford put
across all too effectively was
that they were not real.
They were just tricks
of the atmosphere.
And atmospheric
phenomena can't be
a threat to national security.
You don't shoot at clouds.
>> The public was pondering
the implications of possible
extraterrestrial contact.
>> Robert L. Farnsworth,
president of the United States
Rocket Society, urged defense
officials not to permit
our planes to fire at
any flying saucers.
He says this might alienate
mankind from beings
of far superior forces.
Farnsworth feels that
friendly contact should
be sought as long as possible.
>> Behind the scenes, the
CIA had other concerns.
A secret internal memo
urged immediate attention
to unexplained objects in the
vicinity of major US defense
installations.
>> I would dare say, if anything
happened that we thought was
a threat to our national
security, somebody out there,
one of the services,
would respond to it.
>> Remember, this is the
height of the Cold War.
OK, there are
bombers on both sides
loaded with nuclear bombs.
>> Dr. Jacques Vallee was the
inspiration for the French UFO
researcher in Steven Spielberg's
"Close Encounters of the Third
Kind."
>> [SPEAKING FRENCH]
>> Have you recently
had a close encounter?
>> In real life, Dr. Vallee
conducted sober scientific
research on the phenomenon.
>> We know now that there
is no simple answer.
>> For decades, he met
with witnesses and traveled
the globe gathering evidence,
ultimately creating the first
database on the UFO subject.
>> Mr. Chairman, all the
great nations of the world are
represented on this committee.
Let us keep in mind that the
UFO phenomenon may represent
an even greater reality.
>> Vallee also consulted
with scientific, military,
and government officials,
including Project Blue
Book's top science advisor,
Dr. J. Allen Hynek.
>> I began my work as scientific
consultant to the United States
Air Force as an open skeptic.
>> Hynek was a university
astronomer with a high security
clearance when the Air Force
recruited him to investigate
UFOs.
>> And it so happened when the
Air Force got the job of trying
to figure out what some of these
strange flying saucer stories
were about, well, they needed
an astronomer to see how many
of the reports could possibly
be explained as meteors,
and twinkling
stars, and planets.
>> The two scientists became
close colleagues with Hynek
entrusting Vallee to index
the reams of Blue Book files
scattered throughout
Hynek's home.
It was there that Vallee made
a chance discovery of a letter
so secret he had to appeal to
the Chief Counsel of the Senate
Defense Appropriations Committee
to get it declassified.
>> That document
changed my life.
It taught me that the subject
had been taken much more
seriously than anybody thought.
>> The document
revealed an ultrasecret,
highly-funded scientific
investigation working parallel
to Blue Book unknown to
all but a select few.
The letter was signed
by H. C. Cross,
Director of Exotic Metallurgy at
Battelle National Laboratories.
>> These were the people who had
analyzed the files with a large
budget, with highly competent
physicists and computer
scientists.
Who are these people?
What information did they have?
>> Good evening.
Tonight, we go after a
fantastic story, the story
that flying saucers
from other worlds
are visiting our planet just
as we are exploring outer space
with our own rocket satellites.
Our guest is former Marine
Air Corps Major Donald
Keyhoe in his campaign to prove
that flying saucers exist.
My name is Mike Wallace.
The cigarette is Parliament.
Why will the United States
government withhold information
from United States citizens?
For what reason?
>> The Air Force is simply
treating the American people
like children.
They don't trust
them with the facts.
>> During the '50s and '60s, it
wasn't just the Americans who
were seeing flying saucers.
At the Westall
school in Australia,
several hundred students saw an
object hovering over this power
line tower on their athletic
field, an event they vividly
recall 50 years later.
>> A student came into
the classroom, you know,
[GASPS] there's flying
saucers in the oval.
There's flying saucers.
And everybody ran out.
And I remember the fear and the
hysteria of all the students.
>> I couldn't believe it
because what I was seeing
wasn't possible.
>> It was vertical,
horizontal, move away from us,
back towards us, appear
somewhere else, somewhere else.
>> My god, you know,
but it was exciting.
>> It was like that.
And then all of a sudden,
it just turned on its side.
And I could see that
it was around disk.
>> The children saw the disk
begin to descend into this
wooded reserve at the end of
the school's running path.
>> I ran towards the corner of
the school, jumped the fence,
and ran towards where it
looked as though it went down
into the trees, and then stopped
dead because it was right
in front of me on the ground.
Like a disk with a slight
rise in the middle.
I also heard a low sort
of a humming noise,
and I felt a bit of a heat
coming off it as well.
And it started to take off
pretty well straight away it,
had all bluey, purple
lights around the bottom.
I don't remember
seeing any windows.
And it took off to about
probably 4 or 5 meters
in the air, and then
turned on its side,
and just went zoom,
straight up so
fast that there's
just nothing even now
day that could go that fast.
>> Shortly after
the object departed,
the authorities
converged on the school.
>> We had army, air force,
police down there cordoning off
the area to prevent any of us
entering the area or disturbing
anything.
>> We got called to assembly.
The headmaster said,
you have not seen this.
You do not talk about it.
You'll be in trouble if you do.
>> For the first time ever, the
school science teacher agreed
to describe what
he saw that day,
providing we concealed
his identity.
>> It was not a mirage.
There was something
physical in the sky.
It was silver.
It could hover.
It could move slowly.
It could move very rapidly.
Eventually, it moved away to
the other side of the oval
and down behind some pine trees.
I was not then
nor ever have been
able to use my
knowledge of the world
nor my scientific training to
provide a rational explanation.
>> What he said next sheds light
on why the school's staff have
remained silent all these years.
>> There was a knock
on the door one night.
Two older men, one in uniform,
asked for my description
of what I'd seen.
I was then told that I
hadn't seen anything,
but I'd made it all up,
possibly because I was drunk.
And that they would
have to report that fact
to the education department.
And I would lose my job.
After that, I was told
that I would be prosecuted
under the Official Secrets Act.
And I was told that there
wasn't anything there,
when I knew there was, and that
I had to keep quiet about it.
Why did I have to keep quiet?
>> The Westall landing may not
have been an isolated incident.
Four days prior, a then young
engineer in nearby Balwyn
was taking photos in
his mother's garden
when something caught his eye.
>> This tremendous
flash of light.
And I looked up and
I saw this object.
And I pulled--
I had a Polaroid camera.
I pulled this up, hit
myself on my face.
And I took the picture.
And I got the photograph here.
>> This is the
original Polaroid?
>> That's it.
It certainly is.
It looked like it was made
out of some form of metal
and it was engineered.
And being an engineer,
I was sure it was.
And that's when I
took the photograph,
and it tipped around.
And I could see the bottom.
And it looked like it
was rotating to me.
And that was it.
And then after that, it
sort of gave a bounce,
and it rocketed away to the
north at very high speed.
>> Can you describe
the acceleration?
>> It was like
almost instantaneous,
like it had been
shot out of a gun.
Wham, you know.
>> Air Force officers
showed up at his doorstep,
asking for every detail
of his experience.
>> And they also had some
photographs of similar things.
And they also had
a book, which had
pictures of things in which
they didn't leave with me.
The analysts had
to look through.
But they said it was an
unidentified flying object.
So that was it.
>> What was the implication?
>> That it didn't come
from anywhere on Earth.
>> Project Blue Book with
a skeletal staff continued
publicly collecting
thousands of cases.
Despite efforts to
explain them away,
hundreds were still
filed as unknown.
>> Several reports of a strange
egg-shaped object about 200
feet long landing on farms
and highways last night
in the vicinity of Levelland.
Sheriff Clem says
he even himself
got a glimpse of the thing,
which somehow turned off
lights and auto engines
when it came near.
>> The object did take
off almost straight up
at a terrific speed.
>> Within 24 to 36 hours after
these sightings in Levelland,
Texas, at the White
Sands Proving Ground,
very close to the Trinity test
site where they first detonated
the first atomic bomb, military
personnel witnessed a glowing
egg-shaped object that
apparently landed.
>> This is Bill Haggard,
public information officer,
White Sands Proving
Ground, New Mexico.
What they saw looked like
a landing and takeoff
of some controlled
object from outer space.
>> Well, I was chasing
a car up Park Street.
It was reckless driving.
I saw this big
cloud of smoke, so I
decided to let go of the car
and go up there and investigate.
By the time I got there, I
could see a big white object
sitting in the arroyo.
I couldn't tell what
it was at first.
My radio was dead.
It didn't work at all.
I could see some figures,
looked like they were
walking around the craft there.
>> They appeared to be dressed
in white coveralls and were
child-like, that is small.
>> One was in front,
the other in back.
>> Zamora added that one of
the two persons turned his head
and looked straight at him.
>> When I got out of the
car, about 50 feet from it,
I guess they saw me because they
started their motor or whatever
it is.
I could see a big blast of fire
coming from right under it.
So I was behind some bushes
there, behind my car.
I could see it and I
could feel that heat.
That really got me scared.
A lot of people say, why don't
you take your gun out and shoot
at it?
And that they weren't
doing nothing to me.
It just took a little
while to get airborne,
came up a little bit
about 20, 30 feet,
and it stayed there a while,
in a state just as quiet
as it could be.
And then just flew away.
That's it.
>> Lonnie was very, very scared.
He was as white as a sheet.
From here, went directly to the
church to talk to the priest.
>> Pablo Lopez was among the
first to arrive at the landing
and takeoff site.
>> The ground was still
smoldering in some of the weeds
that were around it.
>> This rare footage gives us
a glimpse of the scene shortly
after the incident.
Patrolman Zamora stoops to point
out one of the landing gear
imprints where officers had
just placed rocks to protect
the fresh ground traces.
>> And then there was a
set-- two sets of footprints,
two sets of footprints, like so.
That was about the
approximate size of them.
In comparison to a quarter,
that's pretty small.
That's about the size of them.
>> Within an hour and over
the next several days,
officials from
the FBI, military,
and Project Blue Book documented
the evidence at the scene.
>> Were there any prong marks
on the ground or anything like
that where you could
see where it had landed?
>> There were four.
>> Very unusual footprints.
How many were there?
>> Two footprints on one side
and two footprints in the other
side.
>> Of course, the
burn area there.
>> I was behind my car.
I could see it and I
could feel that heat.
They told me that
all over the state,
they had been seen some
of those flying saucers
or whatever you call them.
They gave me a book on it.
And they told me to
go ahead and read it.
And well, it says not
to say nothing on it.
Keep away from it.
Don't say too much.
>> It was the middle of the
night by the time Lonnie came
home.
>> Well, he was real pale.
And I thought he was sick.
I said, are you
sick or something?
He said, no.
He said, I was just working.
He was like--
like, he was angry.
What I knew about it was when
I started reading the papers.
It started coming out, and
coming out, and everything.
And I said, well, what's
this that you saw?
I don't know.
He said it's just a headache.
He said everybody's after me.
And some believe
me and some don't.
>> Dear Mr. Zamora.
>> Dear Mr. Zamora,
I'm interested in UFOs.
>> Sure.
I believe you saw an
egg-shaped spacecraft.
It had passengers--
>> I saw a UFO myself
in the summer of 1958.
>> I could go on for a week
telling you what I've seen.
>> A boy in our school science
fair has three pictures that
look just like the flying
saucer you describe.
>> I thought I should write to
you to tell you that you are
not alone in your
sighting of this object.
>> Because I have pictures of a
couple egg-shaped ships taken--
>> I read about you
seeing a flying saucer.
>> I'm a retired teacher.
>> Well, you have a
friend who believes you.
>> This saucer phenomenon
has changed my life in ideas.
>> Farmer said when it took
off, it set his lawn on fire.
>> Officers and
dozens of people saw--
>> Can you tell me how long
it stayed on Earth and other
things like that?
>> Then people started making
fun of him that he had seen
little men from outer
space, or this and that,
and a whole bunch
of dirty stuff.
>> A lot of people asked me,
is that the reason you quit
the police force?
No, the reason I
quit the police force
because I was going into a
lot of publicity and stuff
like that.
And I didn't want
to hurt the town.
>> The level of inquiry went
all the way to the Office
of the President.
To this day, the Socorro close
encounter remains unexplained.
>> Socorro was very similar
to the French cases that I had
brought to Hynek's attention,
checked by the police,
checked by the French Air Force,
where they were also occupants
who were seen, short beings in
connection with the objects.
I think that's
what convinced him
that there were UFO landings
in the United States.
>> Look like a toy top,
somewhat upside down.
>> So this is the diagram
in which we've come up with.
It's more flat here
other than round,
but it does have
the hump up in here.
>> It seemed to move off
the ground, if it was down.
And then we saw three lights
that went from yellow to red.
>> We got right up to it.
It lit up.
I mean, it really become bright.
And we could see it, the
outline of it, real good.
>> Blue Book's Doctor Allen
Hynek investigated one
of the alleged landing sites
with the local sheriff.
At an overflow press conference
later that day, the world
held its breath for an historic
revelation about the landings
in Michigan.
Hynek, by now privately
convinced of the UFO reality,
struggled to follow the Air
Force policy of tamping down
public excitement.
>> Are you saying that the
sightings in the Ann Arbor
and Hillsdale areas definitely
were caused by marsh gases?
>> I'm saying that the two cases
that I investigated most deeply
were most likely.
I said in a statement
that I couldn't prove it
in a court of law,
but it seems--
>> In other words, you're saying
then that you don't know what
caused it.
>> No, that's not quite right.
I think that a person can be
pretty sure about something
without being able to
convict somebody of a murder.
>> Can you believe--
>> Can you say--
>> Yes, I do honestly in
this case, in this case.
>> But you can't say without
question that this is what
caused it?
>> Hynek's strained explanation,
which he later called his
greatest regret,
ignited a public furor.
>> Mr. Ford, what
about flying saucers?
You've had some in
Michigan in the past week.
>> Dave, we've had several
incidents that many felt were
sufficient to justify some
action by our government
and not the kind of flippant
answer that was given
by the Air Force, where they
passed it off as swamp gas.
It seems to me that
this mystery does
require that the Congress
take a good look at it.
Let them put their
record on the line.
>> On April 5, 1966,
congressional hearings were
held with Dr. Hynek and
Secretary of the Air Force
Harold Brown both
giving testimony.
>> Mr. Ford has come out.
He has a pretty good sized
stature in the Congress.
And so Mr. Secretary,
see if you can
shed some light on these
highly illuminated objects.
>> Mr. Secretary, there have
been charges that the Air Force
is hiding something
in the UFO field.
>> We have not been
hiding anything.
The investigations
have been made public.
The hearing this morning was
public for just that reason.
>> There has never been
any evidence presented
to the United States Air Force
or discovered by the United
States Air Force which
would indicate that the UFO
phenomenon represents any
interplanetary space vehicle
of any kind.
>> Amid growing pressure,
the Air Force commissioned
an outside panel of scientists
to analyze select cases
and settle the matter
once and for all.
It was headed by
physicist Edward Condon.
>> Dr. Condon, do you hope to
find people from outer space
here on Earth?
>> Well, I don't know for sure,
but we'll try to just study
the reports and get as much
additional information as we
can to see.
>> Would you like to have us
being visited by these little
or big things?
>> Well, that would be fine with
me if I hope they're friendly.
>> How do you
propose to go about--
>> After the project
was launched,
Condon remarked to an audience
that he thought the UFO subject
was nonsense, but, quote, "I'm
not supposed to reach that
conclusion for another year."
After a two-year investigation,
the panel submitted a massive
1,400-page report, showing
that many cases were radar
and weather anomalies, but
confirming a number as truly
unexplainable.
Among them were the famous
McMinnville photos taken
on the Trent family
farm, as well as
film footage of refers
in Great Falls, Montana.
>> As I looked up, I saw two
silvery objects moving swiftly
out of the northwest.
No sound, except I thought
I heard a whooshing
sound when I first saw them.
The disks appeared to
be spinning like a top
and were about 50
feet across, which
was much slower than the
jets were shot by shortly
after I filmed the disks.
I could not see any exhaust,
wings, or any kind of fuselage.
They appear to be of
a bright shiny metal,
like polished silver.
>> There are cases that are
not explainable in conventional
terms.
There is the assumption
of intelligence
or intelligent control but
not necessarily the assumption
of direct communication.
Why are they here?
What are they doing?
What do they want from us?
What are their motivations?
>> But it was Dr. Condon
who wrote the final word.
"There appears to be no
verified and fully satisfactory
evidence of any
case that is clearly
outside the framework of
presently known science
and technology."
>> Oh, I wouldn't count
really on that one.
You'd have to conclude that's
what we were looking at
was beyond our current
state of the knowledge.
>> But it began
to hit me that Dr.
Condon has apparently not
read his own material very
carefully.
When you do an actual
tabulation, which
he doesn't seem to
have done, and you
find his percentage
of unexplained
is five to six times
larger than the Air Force.
And yet what is his
principal recommendation?
The principal recommendation
that Dr. Condon
has come through with is there's
nothing of scientific interest
that warrants further
attention on the part
of the federal government
here in any major way.
He recommends dropping
the whole problem.
>> Nobody could get funded,
nobody would look at the data
seriously because of the
prestige of the academy saying
that the problem
had been solved.
The Air Force closed
their reporting system.
So that if the public
wanted to report something,
they would report it
to the local police,
but it would never get to the
attention of scientists really
examining the phenomenon.
>> In 1969, the Air Force
officially ended its public
investigations.
>> Which would suggest what?
That they knew what it was?
>> Or didn't know what it was.
>> Also the other way,
they did know what it was.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One aspect of the phenomenon
that was swept under the rug
was the pervasive
reporting of UFO intrusions
at the world's most sensitive
military facilities.
Details did not come
to light until decades
later at the National Press
Club in Washington DC.
>> Declassified US government
documents and witness testimony
from former or retired US
military personnel confirm
beyond any doubt the reality
of ongoing UFO incursions
at nuclear weapons sites.
>> What you have heard
here today is evidence
of a phenomenon.
It sounds fantastic
and it is fantastic.
In 1967, I was a
missile launch officer
stationed at Malmstrom
Air Force Base Montana.
>> Malmstrom was America's
first line of nuclear defense.
Its silos packed with Minuteman
missiles, each one nearly 100
times more powerful than the
bomb that devastated Hiroshima.
Launch officers could, within
minutes of confirmation,
send their birds
arcing 6,000 miles
to incinerate key Soviet
cities, triggering a war that
would end our civilization.
>> I was the chief of party.
I was the observer.
Basically, what I was doing
was the star observation
to provide precise
latitude and longitude
on our small three-man team.
Came from the north and
stopped right over us.
And it had a white light
from the center looking down
into the silo.
I just said to myself,
what if this thing beams us
up and takes us off
to some distant place
and never returned
to Earth again?
I mean, this is
going through my head
here while this
thing's above me.
And then from this dead stop,
it shoots off to the east,
just like now you see
it, now you don't.
It just--
>> This flight team that went
out claimed that they saw
something.
>> How did they describe that?
>> He just said a
large round object.
>> Directly over the LS?
>> Directly over the site.
>> Lieutenant Salas was
stationed in his underground
launch control capsule when he
received a frantic call from
one of his topside guards.
>> Screaming into the phone
saying they're looking a red
glowing object hovering
just above our front gate.
Our missiles began going into
what's called a no-go condition
or unlaunchable.
Essentially, they were disabled.
>> Channel 11.
>> In fact, 10 missiles began
going offline in a matter
of seconds, one after the other.
>> Personally, I'm never aware
of any two missiles going down
at the same time, let alone 10.
>> I was a top secret
control officer,
and I passed out nuclear
launch authenticators.
I can clearly recall
a message coming
through my communications
center which basically
said that a UFO did in fact
shut down several missile
silos in Montana.
>> I was on duty at Echo, which
our squadron command post.
We had strike teams respond
to alarms from the missiles.
They were three to
five miles away.
And they said, Sir, lack
of a better description,
there's a flying saucer
hovering over that missile.
And there's a beam of reddish
light going down to it.
It had to be a data
collection thing.
I'm sure they scanned
the warhead or something.
>> In 1980, I was reassigned
from the Pentagon to RAF
Bentwaters as a
deputy base commander.
At that time, Bentwaters was one
of the largest tactical fighter
ranges in the world.
>> It was also the largest
American nuclear bomb storage
depot in Europe.
>> In December 1980,
early in the morning,
several of our security
policemen discovered strange
lights in the forest.
>> Expecting to find
a crashed aircraft,
they came upon an unrecognizable
object resting on the forest
floor.
>> They observed it
for a period of time.
And it very quickly
and silently vanished.
>> Two nights later, Colonel
Halt received an urgent visit
from the base
security commander.
>> He was white as a sheet.
He said, it's back.
I said, what's back?
He said, the UFO.
I took several security
policemen with me.
I also had my small cassette
recorder I carried everywhere
when I was on duty.
>> What is it?
>> We don't know, sir.
>> Can I get some [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yes, it's a strange
small red light.
And all the barnyard
animals have
gotten quiet now, deathly calm.
This is weird.
>> One object approached
us at very high speed.
>> Here he comes from the south.
He's coming toward us now.
Now, we're observing
what appears
to be a beam coming
down to the ground.
This is unreal.
>> We stood there in awe.
Was this just a warning?
Was this an attempt
to communicate?
Was this a weapon
or just a probe?
Just as suddenly as it
appeared, click, disappeared.
We stood there, ah.
About that time, we noticed
the other object to the south
was sending down beams,
about a mile and a half
away over Woodbridge Base,
when we had great difficulties
communicating.
But we were able to
discern some of those beams
were either falling into or
near the weapons storage area,
and there's a great
deal of concern.
I also found out later
that both the tower
operators at Bentwaters
saw an object
and picked it up on their
Brite II radar and watched it.
>> I was just sitting there,
and I happened to see a dot come
on the scope.
And it just went like
one dot of beginning,
then another dot, and
another dot, and it was gone.
And then it made a
immediate right-hand turn
and came right towards the base.
Just absolutely phenomenal.
>> It's not like any radar
target I've ever seen traveling
at extremely high rate of speed.
It passed over the control
tower and then it stopped.
It was an orange-ish color.
Sort of popped into
my mind at the time
that somebody's flying
a basketball out here.
There were lights
around the center of it.
It was more like portholes, and
then you were seeing the light
from the inside.
But it hovered momentarily,
reversed its course,
and went back out at
a high rate of speed.
>> Even more alarming incidents
took place on both sides
of the Cold War.
According to one secret
Soviet documents,
a UFO hovered over a
Ukrainian nuclear base
for nearly an hour.
Inexplicably, several
missiles suddenly switched
to full combat readiness
and began a launch sequence
without any
authentication codes.
After 15 heart stopping
seconds, the countdown
to a potential Armageddon ceased
as abruptly as it had started.
>> As this object passed
over the missile site,
we will start getting erratic
indications on that missile.
The bad thing was we also
got a launch indicator.
>> Does that mean that the
launch sequence has been
triggered?
>> That means that the missile
has received a launch signal.
The countdown had to
be manually aborted.
>> We have UFOs in the area.
>> These witnesses are some of
the most highly vetted military
officers in charge of the
world's most devastating
armaments.
If what they're
reporting is accurate,
then the pattern
is hard to avoid.
UFOs have been making
incursions into top security
nuclear facilities
decade after decade.
>> To me, it's pretty clear.
This is just-- we're
shining a light on this.
We're pointing it out.
What are you people doing
with nuclear weapons?
>> As the '90s dawned
and the walls fell down,
it was as if humanity itself
was demanding to be seen as one
people and one world.
The Soviet Union had dissolved.
And history's spotlight began to
shine on long darkened corners.
>> Different officials were
looking for ways to open
dialogue with the West and
embrace all the changes that
were underway in their
country at the time.
>> This is George Knapp in
Moscow, the city many are--
>> Knapp's team was invited
to Moscow by government
and military officials who were
willing to share decades worth
of UFO files.
>> [SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> General Igor Maltsev,
for seven years commander
of the entire Soviet
Air Defense System,
recalls a UFO flap
over Moscow in 1990,
hundreds of visual and radar
observations by military
personnel.
Maltsev confirms
his standing order
was don't fire on the UFO.
March 1991, radar at
the Leningrad Airport
detects first one, then two,
then three unidentified objects
hovering over a nuclear plant.
From a dead stop, the UFO zipped
away at 2,000 miles per hour.
Jacques Vallee was
one of few Westerners
to personally investigate
the case by meeting
with Russian sources firsthand.
>> An object hovered near
a nuclear power plant
in [RUSSIAN] and a beam from
that object melted the asphalt
there.
>> The intention was maybe we
would be able to find out from
the Russians more about what the
American government knows about
UFOs than we will ever learn
from the American government
itself.
>> Governor, are you
ready to take the oath?
>> I am.
>> When a young, open-minded
president was sworn in, one
of America's most highly
placed civilians saw a chance
for a new government
transparency on the phenomenon.
>> As a means of access
to people to the wonders
of nature.
>> Heir to the power
and influence of one
of the world's wealthiest
families, Laurence Rockefeller,
philanthropist and
conservationist,
also had a passionate
interest in UFOs.
>> His idea was to approach
the president with a plea
for making available the
data that the government had
on the subject.
>> The first inclination
by particularly people
in government is you've
got to be kidding me.
You want me-- you
want me to risk
my career by getting
deeply into the rabbit
hole of talking about UFOs.
And so there's a
tremendous resistance.
>> Rockefeller met with
President Clinton's Science
Advisor, Jack Gibbons, at the
White House and persuaded him
to take action.
Rockefeller was
then asked to pick
a case that the White House
should attempt to declassify.
He chose the 1947
Roswell incident, noting,
quote, "Many are
convinced that Roswell
marks the beginning of
government secrecy about UFOs."
>> Jack had actually
gone to the Air Force,
asked then Secretary Widnall,
who was the Secretary
of the Air Force, to take a
look particularly at the records
around Roswell, New Mexico.
>> "Dear Colonel Cavitt, the
General Accounting Office seeks
to fully explain the claim that
the US government recovered
an alien spacecraft
near Roswell,
New Mexico in July 1947 and
since that time has covered up
that fact."
>> The Army Air Forces has
announced that a flying disk
has been found and is now in
the possession of the Army.
>> According to my dad,
there was a bad thunderstorm
the night before.
And the next day, he
was out on the ranch
and he found this debris.
>> The disk landed at a
ranch at Corona, New Mexico.
And the rancher turned
it over to the Air Force.
>> Roswell was then home to the
world's only nuclear air wing,
including the B-29 that had
dropped the first atomic bomb
on Hiroshima.
The base's Chief Intelligence
Officer, Major Jesse Marcel,
was dispatched to the
ranch to investigate.
>> We had to follow
the rancher out there.
With just verbal directions,
we never would have found it.
>> Marcel and another officer
were the first military
to arrive at the crash site.
They came upon an expanse of
unrecognizable debris strewn
across an area the size of
a dozen football fields.
>> There was so much of it.
It was scattered over
such a vast area.
We found a piece of
metal about a foot
and 1/2 to 2 feet wide and
about 2 or 3 feet long.
Felt like you had
nothing in your hands.
It wasn't any
thicker than the foil
out of a pack of cigarettes.
The thing about
it that got me is
that you couldn't even bend it.
You couldn't even dent it.
Even with a sledgehammer,
would bounce off it.
>> Marcel was ordered
to immediately transport
the strange wreckage to
Fort Worth Army Airfield.
There, Marcel was met by
the commanding general who
told him to keep silent
in the face of what
was becoming a media frenzy.
>> They had a whole flock
of microphones there.
They wanted me to--
they wanted some
comments from me,
but I wasn't at
liberty to do that.
>> Marcel was instead ordered
to pose with wood, foil,
and rubber debris from a
conventional weather balloon.
>> All I could do is
keep my mouth shut.
And General Ramey is the one
who told the newspapers what
it was and to forget about it.
It was nothing more than a
weather observation balloon.
Of course, which we
both knew differently.
>> Colonel Thomas DuBose, who
was also ordered to pose with
the fake debris, describes
how an iron curtain of secrecy
slammed down.
>> This is the highest
priority you can exhibit,
and you will say nothing.
More than top secret, this
he said, it's beyond that.
This is story we're
going to tell the public.
It was a cover story,
the balloon part of it.
In order, we don't have any
more inquiries about what
we picked up on the desert.
>> Congressman Schiff, what got
you interested in this subject
per se?
>> I started receiving letters
a little over two years ago from
constituents stating that they
believed the government was
covering up what
happened at Roswell.
Many of them clearly
believed that it
was in fact an
extraterrestrial crash.
The weather balloon
story never made sense
because there was
clearly an undisputed,
in my mind, extra military
attention to this matter,
from extra security around the
crash scene to special handling
of whatever the debris was.
That could fit a
classified project.
It doesn't fit a
weather balloon.
>> In September 1994, the Air
Force issued its response,
"The Roswell Report--
Case Closed."
The Air Force claimed
it was a secret project
of weather balloons hung with
box kites and microphones
to spy on Soviet nuclear tests.
>> Please roll the video.
>> There's the famous box kite
that became the famous flying
disk, the weather balloons
that were on the balloon train.
>> Same rubber balloon, same
foil box kite as the original
cover story, only many of
them strung together with
microphones dangling beneath.
>> That's the tin
foil, paper, rubber,
and sticks that they recovered
in the desert near New Mexico
in 1947.
>> The Air Force,
nearly 50 years later,
was basically telling
the same tale,
that the top security personnel
of the world's only atomic
bombing wing really had
mistaken this rubber, wood,
and tin foil for a
crashed flying saucer.
>> Being an
intelligence officer,
I was familiar with just about
all materials used in aircraft
and in our air travel.
This is nothing like that.
It was not anything from this
Earth, that I'm quite sure of.
>> My suspicion is that the
Roswell incident did happen
and something maybe not from
our universe went down there.
And we should allow
the American people
to make a judgment on what that
might have been by disclosing.
I mean, this is probably
the most blatant case
of overreaction to what
is national security.
The public has a right to know.
>> Rockefeller put together
a briefing document intended
for world leaders with
a sobering observation.
"It is conceivable
that even the president
himself is not fully briefed
on matters classified
as above top secret."
>> I did attempt to find
out if there were any secret
government documents
that reveal things.
And if there were, they
were concealed from me, too.
It wouldn't be-- I wouldn't
be the first president
that underlings have lied to
or that career bureaucrats have
waited out.
But there may be some career
person sitting around somewhere
hiding these dark secrets
even from elected presidents.
But if so, they
successfully eluded me.
And I'm almost embarrassed to
tell you I did try to find out.
>> 3 feet per
second contact now.
That was a beautiful one.
>> Apollo astronaut
Edgar Mitchell,
who had grown up around Roswell,
was an aerospace insider with
deep Pentagon connections.
He became convinced there
were UFO secrets concealed
from normal government channels.
>> Well, if the accounts
are to be believed, yes,
there have been ET visitation.
There have been crashed craft.
There have been material
and bodies recovered.
And there is some group
of people somewhere,
that may or may not be
associated with government
at this point but
certainly were at one time,
that have this knowledge.
>> No one has proven
there's nothing to it.
No one's had the opportunity to
prove there's something to it.
And that's what I did.
And every passing day--
>> In 2007, the most
powerful man in the Senate,
majority leader Harry Reid,
persuaded two colleagues,
Senators Ted Stevens
and Daniel Inouye,
to secretly allocate millions
in Defense Department funds
to investigate UFOs.
The covert program operated
from the tail end of the Bush
presidency through the
Obama administration
and into Donald Trump's
first year in office.
In December of 2017,
the lid blew off.
At long last, the government was
admitting a modern day program
to investigate UFOs and released
startling official evidence,
including video tapes from the
cockpits of military aircraft.
One of the key authors
of the "Times" story
was investigative journalist
and best-selling author Leslie
Kane.
She went to Washington to
meet with Luis Elizondo, who
had just resigned
from his position
as head of the secret
Pentagon UFO program.
>> I was invited
to this meeting.
They wanted me to
meet Mr. Elizondo
to see what could happen.
>> Objects that
are moving so fast,
and yet we don't see an
ionization trail in the, air
and you don't hear a sonic boom.
How is that possible?
Another one is--
>> Elizondo's colleagues
took her aside to reveal some
extraordinary documentation
related to the program.
>> I wasn't allowed to
take anything with me.
I mean, the most
important evidence
that was shared with me
at the meeting regarding
the phenomenon itself
were the videos.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Whoa, we got it.
>> What the fuck is that?
>> Did you box a moving target?
>> I knew this was breaking news
for the front page of "The New
York Times."
>> There's a whole
fleet of them.
Look on the ASA.
>> My gosh.
Look at that thing.
It's rotating.
>> My co-author,
Ralph Blumenthal,
and I set up a meeting with
Mark Mazzetti and said,
we have this explosive story.
Sat down with him
in the New York
office of "The New
York Times," and we
brought in all the documents.
These are the videos.
Here's other documents that show
the existence of the program.
And here's what they've
studied, and here's
what they've learned, and
here's a letter from Harry
Reid about the program.
>> Elizondo's colleague,
the former Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Defense
for Intelligence,
Christopher Mellon, managed
to obtain the tapes from
the Pentagon.
And chose "The New York
Times" to break the story.
>> I received the videos,
the now famous videos,
in the Pentagon parking lot from
a Defense Department official.
I still have the originals
and the packaging.
This is a case where somebody
bent the rules a little bit,
and they did so for
the larger good.
And we're absolutely all
better off because of it.
In the end, I have to say
I was still extraordinarily
disappointed with
"The New York Times"
because they focused on
this small AATIP program.
And the real story,
in my mind at least,
should have been
these things are real.
They're here.
This is happening now.
>> One of the Pentagon cases
reported by "The New York
Times" was an encounter by naval
aircraft about 200 miles off
the coast of San
Diego, California.
>> 5,500 people that
were on the "Nimitz"
in 2004 when this happened, and
I guarantee every single one
of them knows that
this event happened.
That's a whole air wing.
That's Mount Fuji.
That's Japan.
>> Commander David Fravor was
leading a training exercise
from the USS "Nimitz" carrier
strike group when he was
abruptly ordered to investigate
an unknown target that had
appeared on one of the
ship's radar scopes.
>> We're going to
suspend the training.
We have real-world taskings.
So we're like, OK, cool.
>> He and another
F-18 Super Hornet,
each carrying two airmen,
zoomed toward the coordinates.
>> So it's myself and my WSO
and the other pilot and the WSO
in the back seat
of that airplane,
so there's four of us.
>> When they arrived, they first
saw what appeared to be a large
object slightly below the
surface of the ocean with
a strange oval-shaped craft
darting around in the air just
above it.
>> If you picture a Tic Tac
that's about 40 feet long,
round on both ends, no rivets,
no metal, smooth white,
it was white.
It was just smooth, no wings,
no propulsion, no windows.
It didn't matter which way
it was pointing because it
was moving over the water.
It would go-- it never turned.
It never changed its
longitudinal axis.
It went fore, aft, left, right.
It was just doing this.
And I said, hey, I'm going
to go check that out.
All of a sudden, you
just see it turn its body
and go whoop and start
coming up at you.
You go-- that was
rather interesting.
We're just looking at it.
And we're doing this.
And we're looking at it.
We're looking at it.
We go around all the
way around the outside
of the circle, 180 degrees.
Well, I know where he's going.
So I'll just go over there.
This thing goes
poof, and it's gone.
I mean, literally
[SNAPS] that fast, gone.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> You can think about what
we're saying, like, holy shit.
What the-- is that?
And then there's a lot
of, dude, what the?
Did you guys see that?
Do you guys see it?
And they're like, it's gone.
We don't see shit.
Nothing accelerates that fast.
You're talking-- you're
talking something that not only
accelerated beyond
anything that we had seen,
but it just was poof.
The controller
comes up and says,
hey, you're not going
to believe this,
but that thing is back
at your cap point.
>> Meaning the object
had instantly reappeared
at the precise
secret coordinates
of the fleet's critical
aerial defense zone.
>> It obviously
had some awareness.
It knew where we were going.
It'll make the hair on the
back of your neck stand up.
And I actually
told my backs here,
I said, I don't know about you.
I'm pretty weirded out.
>> More jets equipped with
the Navy's most advanced radar
visual tracking systems
were scrambled, this time,
capturing the object on video.
>> First thing he gets is
a little blip on the radar.
He puts his cursors over it.
And he tries to
grab a lock on it.
Basically, when you
take a lock, you
tell the radar look at that
location, and stare at it,
and put all your
energy on that point.
Well, as soon as it
does it, the radar
gets indications that it's
being jammed by the object it's
trying to lock.
The infrared sees
differing temperatures.
So the Tic Tac is actually
hotter than the air around it.
It doesn't have to be by much,
but it's going to appear white.
They're driving straight at it.
It just kind of hovering there.
And it goes poof, and
it takes off the side.
I just don't know--
I doubt that we have
developed that technology.
>> I interviewed three of the
four aviators who were with
Dave during that encounter.
And it was readily apparent
to everyone involved
that vehicle had what they
call a dominant battlespace
awareness.
It was in control of that
engagement from the outset.
There was no question that
it completely outmatched
our frontline fighters.
I served on the Special Access
Program Oversight Committee,
so I had access to all of the
Black Programs in those days.
We know perfectly
well there's nothing
like that behind the scenes
or even on the drawing boards.
>> Senator Harry Reid, who
instigated the secret Pentagon
UFO program, confirmed what
nuclear launch officers have
been reporting for decades.
>> There was more
than one up there.
>> UFOs have interfered with
our country's most powerful
weapons.
>> If they had been called upon
by the president to launch,
they couldn't have done it.
>> Did you have anybody
in the Defense Department,
the Pentagon pull you aside,
bend your ear, and say,
why are you doing this?
>> They did everything they
could to stop the program from
going forward.
They gave the person
that came to me initially
such a bad time.
He's fortunate to have
hung on to his job
because people tried
to get rid of him
because they wanted
nothing to do with this.
The Defense Intelligence
Agency was one of the worst.
They dragged their
feet even though there
was one of their
senior scientists
thought they should
look at this.
And remember, all
we're saying, nobody
has to agree that
why it's there,
but shouldn't we at least
be spending some money
to study all of
these phenomenon?
Shouldn't we study the stuff?
The answer is yes.
And that's all this was about
and why the federal government,
all these years, has covered up,
put brake pads on everything,
stopped it.
I think it's very, very
bad for our country.
>> I interviewed Gordon Cooper,
Mercury astronaut Gordon Cooper
back in the '90s.
Cooper said on camera that there
was a landed UFO at circa 1957
at Edwards Air Force Base.
His camera crew captured
the filming of this object.
And he presented this
to the higher ups.
And eventually, a career
jet came in from Washington.
He handed the footage
over, which was good.
He viewed it.
>> That's the last he saw of it.
>> Exactly.
>>Did you know
where that footage
went of the flying saucer
that landed on the tarmac?
>> It went to Washington.
That's all that I know.
>> Did you ever keep in
touch with anybody about it
or discuss it?
>> How would I keep in
touch with anybody about it?
There's no way
within the military
or within the government of
keeping track of something that
is classified.
>> Did you try to go
after stuff like this?
>> We did.
We have.
It's there.
>> Are you saying that there's
some evidence that's still
hasn't seen the light of day?
>> I'm saying most of it
hasn't seen the light of day.
>> Astronaut Cooper had spoken
with the president at a cabinet
meeting.
He raised this with
Secretary Cohen.
And then Cohen's
office called me
and asked me to pursue
this and chase it down.
The Air Force colonel that I
spoke with got very frustrated.
And when I asked
him what happened
to all of these
records, he said, well,
that was all cleaned up or
thrown out to save space,
something like that.
It sounded ludicrous, but
that's what he told me.
If there is some
recovered debris,
say, it is so deeply
buried and squirreled away
that it's outside of those
normal oversight processes,
and that's where there's
a problem in this area.
>> Dr. Jacques Vallee has
collected purported metal
debris from UFO cases dating as
far back as 1947 that experts
are analyzing in a
state-of-the-art laboratory.
>> The breakthrough has come
with the invention of a machine
that enables us to look
at the atomic structure.
And at that point,
the atomic structure
is impossible to fake.
>> This device is a
multi-parameter ion beam
imager.
>> Dr. Garry Nolan, a
Stanford microbiologist,
is using a revolutionary three
dimensional imaging device
to analyze the samples right
down to their individual atoms.
When Dr. Nolan placed
some of the fragments
in the vacuum chamber
of his instrument,
he was astonished to find
their composition was
unlike any known metal.
>> Just one spot and the
isotopic composition all
the way across, the--
>> No matter where he looked
in the sample's jumble
of elements, whether magnesium,
iron, nickel, or titanium,
the ratio of isotopes
didn't make any sense.
>> If you're talking about
an advanced material from
an advanced civilization, you're
talking about something that
I'll just call it
an ultramaterial.
It's something
which has properties
where somebody has is
putting it together, again,
at the atomic scale.
So we're building our
world with 80 elements.
Somebody else is
building the world
with 253 different isotopes.
I intend to use the information
to try to build something,
to try to understand a
physical principle that we
don't know today.
>> This material
was manufactured.
It's not natural.
It's not natural
to the materials
that we have around us in
the lab or on the Earth.
It does not mean that it was
necessarily made someplace
in outer space, just means that
it was manufactured especially
for a particular purpose
that we don't understand,
and we want to understand it.
>> There is an immense array
of unanswered questions.
What we observe some
of these craft doing,
think about the
possibilities what
we may discover technologically,
how we might solve the energy
crisis, how we might raise
our standards of living.
There is an urgent
need, in my view,
to get to the bottom of it.
We don't know the
origin of these vehicles
nor do we understand the intent
of whoever is controlling them.
>> There are cases that seem
to go beyond encounters with
an advanced technology to
contact with an engaged
intelligence.
>> Papua New Guinea, June 1959,
an Australian missionary spots
a large disk hovering just
200 feet off the ground while
standing with 38 other people.
>> This solid looking object--
and can you imagine what it's
like to look up in the sky
and see some figures up there?
>> All were amazed to see four
small occupants dressed in what
looked like black diving suits.
>> Figures walking about on
top and not the slightest noise
whatsoever.
And so we waved.
Wouldn't it be wonderful
if we could get this object
down onto the playing field?
And as we waved,
wondering whether we'd
get some recognition
and whether perhaps they
would understand what we
wanted, they waved back.
>> The encounter lasted
several hours before the object
abruptly departed.
>> There was this amazingly
incredible speed that the whole
craft disappeared to nothing
across the bay in the matter
of a second or so.
>> In 1994, three days of
sightings across Zimbabwe
culminated in what some believe
is the most significant close
encounter in modern history.
>> Hundreds of people today
phoned the ZBC and the BBC
correspondent in Harare saying
they sighted an unidentified
flying object last night
with some eyewitness reports.
>> It almost seemed to be
under the cloud as it came past
and notices no noise, and
that's when I thought, well,
there's something very odd here.
>> It was quite amazing.
It was beautiful.
>> They are saying that Jesus
is passing through Africa.
That's what they are saying.
>> We interviewed about
64 children in front
of the camera.
>> The UFO story that happened.
>> Just exactly what
you want to say, OK.
>> Well, I was
running and playing,
and then I saw this
maroon color in the sky.
Why don't we follow it?
>> We saw this, like, a
silver thing down there.
>> It was a silver oval thing
that flew past really slowly.
>> I saw the bigger one
and the spaceship, like,
four or five of them.
>> It was red,
green, and yellow.
>> There was this big ship.
It had these lights,
these patterns.
And it flew.
>> I thought, no,
it's not a UFO.
And then I looked
carefully at it.
And I thought, maybe.
>> Dozens of children said that
one or more of the disk-shaped
objects landed just beyond the
far edge of their playground.
The next thing
they knew something
was standing next to it.
>> We saw him standing
by the silver thing,
and he had big eyes.
>> He had a big head
and big black eyes,
and was dressed in
a black body suit.
>> They were wearing pure black.
>> And I came down, and I saw
the funny man with his eyes
here.
And I saw a spaceship,
and there were
a few little ones around it.
>> How far away were
you when you saw him?
>> Not very far, not very
far, about a meter away.
>> A meter away, that close?
>> Yes.
>> And how big was the figure?
>> It was about as
big as a grade six.
>> Yeah, it's there.
>> I believe that the
children did see something.
>> I believe them because
normally children don't lie.
>> I've always taught my
children seeing is believing.
Unfortunately, I
didn't see, so--
>> [NON-ENGLISH CHANT]
>> This alleged encounter caught
the attention of Pulitzer Prize
winning Harvard
psychiatrist Dr. John Mack.
>> It seemed that he was
looking at all of us.
>> What was it-- what did it
feel like when he was looking
at you?
>> I felt scared.
>> It felt scary?
What was scary about it?
>> Well, I got scared because
I've never seen such a person
like that before.
>> And I saw this person,
and it had big eyes.
That's all I saw
about it, big eyes.
>> They had short legs and
quite a long top with a big head
and eyes that are
bigger than ours.
>> How much bigger than ours?
>> Four or five times the size.
>> Four or five times
the size of ours?
>> So then I was
looking at him, right?
Then he was looking at me back.
How could you just
keep on looking at him?
So I had to stop, and
I looked sideways.
>> But I was looking
straight into his eyes.
>> Well, he never said anything.
It's just that the
face is the eyes.
>> Maybe they're trying
to communicate with us,
show us something which
we don't know about.
>> I think they want people to
know that we're actually making
harm on this world.
And we mustn't get
too [much] technology.
>> We don't look
after the planet,
and all trees will just go
down, and there will be no air,
and people will be dying.
>> Is this an idea
you have had before,
or did this idea come to you
when you had this experience?
>> When I had this experience.
>> For the first time
in nearly 20 years,
the Ariel schoolchildren
gathered from the four corners
of the world to talk to each
other about the experience they
shared that September morning.
>> I remember something there.
>> One they all still
struggle to understand.
>> You know that
it's moving but you--
>> I stand by what I saw.
There was no reason for
any of us to make that up.
>> I've not spoken
to anybody about it,
not because I'm not proud of
it, but because I don't want
the stigma.
>> So it's something that I've
had to deal with for 19 and 1/2
years.
>> I don't want to say
I felt like I knew it,
but I knew that I didn't
have to be afraid of it.
>> They took us back to
the moment of contact.
>> No, exactly how
I felt, exactly.
>> The details still
seared into memory.
>> I was with one of the
other girls and saying to her,
this is amazing.
>> We all were just
stopped in our tracks.
>> The little man appeared
on top of the actual craft.
And that moment for
me was very distinct
because I was like,
that's not human.
>> I was just completely
engulfed in these eyes.
>> The eyes, and in that moment,
however long it was because I
have no idea of the time
frame, It was just--
it was mesmerizing.
>> There was no talking.
It's all just images in the
head, telepathic communication.
>> They were trying
to communicate,
trying to tell us something.
It was something to do
with the environment.
>> I kept getting these
thoughts and ideas in my mind
of technology.
Technology is not helping.
Technology is bad.
>> And we're going
down a wrong path,
and we have to start recognizing
that what we're doing is
detrimental, and we
need to make changes.
And I don't know
what to do with that.
They were reaching out to us.
It was as if they wanted
us to go with them.
At that moment, that was
kind of when I snapped
right out of the trance.
>> As soon as I broke contact,
all of those feelings,
technology, the bad, the
horribleness that was happening
and going around my
body at the time went.
>> It's making me a bit
anxious being back here.
>> I can feel it right now.
I was scared.
>> They came running up here
in such a panic, screaming,
screaming.
Aah, yeah, you know.
And a child can't make that up.
>> So I was there when they
were interviewing them and saw
the way they were.
It was just a huge big
mess, and muddle up,
and just people everywhere, just
ask them questions straight off
without explaining to the
children what they were doing
and why they were doing it.
>> It was chaos in terms of
the media frenzy that was going
on and us being so young and
not even being allowed time
to comprehend what we had seen.
Our teachers certainly
didn't believe us,
so that was a big
deal because we
had to continue going
to school there.
>> We went back one last time
to the Ariel School to meet with
Judy Bates, a teacher at the
time of the incident and now
the headmistress.
Something was weighing
on her that she
wanted to tell the children.
>> Yeah, I said I
wanted to apologize.
I should have taken more
notice, but I didn't.
I was more concerned
about me and not them
and what was going on in
my own sort of experience.
And that's what-- yeah.
>> And if you could summarize
in just one sentence what took
place September 1994 here at
Ariel School Ruwa, Zimbabwe,
what would you say?
>> Aliens visited us.
And that's about it.
Yeah.
And that's it.
If you believe it, you believe
it if you don't, well--
>> We find ourselves confronted
with something that challenges
our very understanding
of reality.
We may be sharing this
fragile blue-green oasis
with an unknown other, one
with a mysterious relationship
to humanity and its own
interest in our world.
>> And if you saw him
again, what would you do?
>> I'll ask him, what
is he doing on Earth,
and what does he want with us?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There were well-observed UFO
cases just like modern cases
in the 18th century,
in the 17th century.
There was science.
There were astronomers.
They had telescopes.
And they were very
good observers
because their life depended
on being good observers.
And these observations come
from all over the world.
They just have been forgotten.
>> I like to think of anomalies,
mysteries as opportunities.
And we'll go after
those mysteries,
take the torch away from the
campfire and out of the cave
into the darkness, and make
some amazing discoveries.
>> The UFO phenomenon, as
studied by my colleagues
and myself, bespeaks the action
of some form of intelligence.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> These objects gave the
impression that they wanted
to be seen.
With this enormous
spotlight, there
was no way that they
were trying to hide.
So why?
That is the main question.
Why do these objects
want to be seen?
>> Later on, I was so sorry
that why I did not call
on the radio, ask
them, who are you?
Please, make a
communication with us.
>> I figure if they're smart
enough and capable enough
to come into our airspace with
the technology that they have,
if they wanted to do us in, they
could have done us in a long
time ago.
So I'm not fearful
of this at all.
>> [SPEAKING CHINESE]
>> There was one
of them goes zip.
>> It went like a
bat out of hell.
>> Jumped about 10 degrees
to the right, just like this.
>> I've never seen anything
go so fast in my life as that
thing went.
>> Incredible speed
disappeared to nothing.
>> And just went, zoom,
straight up so fast.
>> It's like it had
been shot out of a gun.
Wham.
>> Now you see
it, now you don't.
It just, choo.
>> But it just was poof.
[MUSIC PLAYING]